							Emil Brink

    Building the Verse Specification Document


INTRODUCTION
The Verse Specification (often referred to here as just "the
spec") is written in DocBook XML, with a lot of machinegene-
rated parts. It has only been built on the author's Gentoo
Linux system; building it in e.g. Windows might be tricky.


BUILDING IT
The media/ directory holds various images, and need to be
built separately at the moment. This is mainly for performance
reasons; I want to be able to do "make clean" in the toplevel,
which holds all the HTML, without having that affect the images.
So, first enter media/ and run make in there. After a while,
various subdirs should be populated with PNG images.

Then, go back to the toplevel dir, and run make a second time.
This should enter protocol/, do various transforms there to
generate DocBook snippets, which are included by the main
"spec.docbook" document. The final result will be 200+ HTML
files in the toplevel, browse "index.html" to test the spec.


TOOLS
The following tools are required in order to build the spec:

docbook2html	- DocBook processor used for main document
xsltproc	- General XSLT processor, used to generate
		  DocBook from custom XML documents by
		  applying various transforms. See protocol/
Batik		- SVG rasterizer (written in Java)
Java run-time	- to run Batik
dot		- Graph renderer, part of Graphviz


FILENAME CONVENTIONS
The following suffixes are seen in this package:

.docbook	- Complete DocBook document, with proper
		  headers
.xml		- Custom XML document, usually lacking a
		  formal document type definition. Used to
		  e.g. describe the commands.
.snip		- Generated DocBook text, by processing XML
		  using XSLT. Not complete, must be included
		  in a proper document to work.
.dot		- Graphviz graphs, used for e.g. subscription
		  figures. Processed into SVG by "dot" tool.
.svg		- Structured Vector Graphics, often used as
		  source format for images.
.png		- Bitmap image data for inclusion in spec.


THE CUSTOM XML
The protocol/ directory contains a set of XML files that
define the protocol on a bit-for-bit level, as a set of
"commands" which is the smallest unit of communication using
Verse.
	These files are hand-written from reading the command
definition C files; they are not canonical but I wanted to
have the commands defined as XML for various reasons when
building the spec.
	There are no document type definitions or schema
definitions for this XML, currently, and perhaps there will
never be. They are not optimized for readability; read the
output (the spec) instead, it ought to be easier and that's
what it's there for.
